Juarez pages with compartment/fasciotomy/delta: [329, 506, 556, 586, 587, 588, 799, 800, 808, 810, 951, 993, 1037, 1038]

--- Page 329, context around match ---
Critical reduction in the circulating intravascular volume, leading to inadequate
tissue perfusion
Most common type of shock
Internal causes—third-spacing or pooling in the intravascular compartment
External causes—hemorrhage, GI or renal losses, burns, excessive
diaphoresis
Hypovolemia effects on pulse pressure:
Systolic decreases, diastolic maintains or elevates, NARROW pulse pressure
Example:
— Baseline is 130/80
— Volume loss → 110/80, 100/80, 90/70

--- Page 506, context around match ---
Propofol has been demonstrated to reduce ICP by as much as 15 mmHg.
Why would 0.45 NS or D5W be contraindicated for a patient with ↑ ICP?
These are hypotonic fluids. Therefore, they would rapidly leave the vascular
compartment and go intracellular. In the brain, which already has an increase
in ICP, cell “swelling” would exacerbate the problem.
Use isotonic fluids.
Should hyperventilation be used to decrease the ICP?
No! Hyperventilation will cause an alkalosis (pH will rise). This will result
in cerebral vasoconstriction, which WILL lower the ICP. The bad news,
however, is that the vasoconstriction also reduces cerebral blood flow.
Keep the pH low normal, ~ 7.35.

--- Page 556, context around match ---
—Darrell Royal
GASTROINTESTINAL TEST BLUEPRINT
Gastrointestinal 6% of total test 9 questions*
→ Abdominal compartment syndrome
→ Acute abdominal trauma
→ Acute GI hemorrhage
→ Bowel infarction, obstruction, perforation (e.g., mesenteric
ischemia, adhesions)
→ GI surgeries (e.g., Whipple, esophagectomy, resections)
→ Hepatic failure/coma (e.g., portal hypertension, cirrhosis,
esophageal varices, fulminant hepatitis, biliary atresia, drug-

--- Page 586, context around match ---
Intra-abdominal Hypertension and Abdominal Compartment
Syndrome
Etiology
Massive fluid resuscitation
Trauma
Emergent abdominal surgery
Pathophysiology
If pressure in the abdominal cavity becomes greater than the pressure in

--- Page 587, context around match ---
APP 60 mmHg or > is associated with improved survival.
APP 50 mmHg or < is associated with increased mortality.
Abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS) is a sustained IAP of > 20
mmHg, with or without an APP of 60 mmHg, and is associated with
new organ dysfunction or failure.
Assessment
Measure the bladder pressure; it most closely approximates the
intraperitoneal pressure.
Place the transducer at the level of the symphysis pubis to get an
accurate pressure.

--- Page 588, context around match ---
Discuss with the physician whether gastro/colon prokinetic agents are
appropriate for the patient.
For an IAP ≥ 20 mmHg:
This is considered abdominal compartment syndrome.
Decompression surgery may be indicated.

--- Page 799, context around match ---
—Helen Keller
MUSCULOSKELETAL TEST BLUEPRINT
Musculoskeletal 2% of total test 3–4 questions*
→ Compartment syndrome
→ Fractures (e.g., femur, pelvic)
→ Functional issues (e.g., immobility, falls, gait disorders)
→ Osteomyelitis
→ Rhabdomyolysis
*The number of questions and percentages in this category may
vary slightly from test to test.
MUSCULOSKELETAL TESTABLE NURSING ACTIONS

--- Page 800, context around match ---
□ Recognize indications for, and manage patients requiring,
compartment syndrome monitoring
This exam includes only 3–4 questions on musculoskeletal
concepts. Therefore, 3–4 hours of studying these topics is generally
adequate in order to do well.

--- Page 808, context around match ---
Rhabdomyolysis is a potentially life-threatening syndrome due to the
massive destruction of skeletal muscle cells.
The etiologies of rhabdomyolysis include crush injuries, prolonged
immobility, compartment syndrome, hyperthermia, and delirium tremens
(DTs).
Massive muscle injury results in the release of myoglobin, creatine
kinase (CK), and potassium into the extracellular and intravascular
spaces due to damaged muscles.
Kidney injury occurs when creatine kinase and myoglobin obstruct the
renal tubules.
Clinical sequelae of rhabdomyolysis:

--- Page 810, context around match ---
Compartment Syndrome
Acute compartment syndrome is the development of elevated pressure
within the muscle fascia, which may lead to decreased blood flow. This
results in damage to the muscle tissue and nerves within the compartment.
Causes: a crush injury to or surgery on a limb, a fracture, severe muscle
hematoma or sprain, a constricting cast or bandage, and/or prolonged
tourniquet or positioning during surgery that leads to a loss of blood
supply to a limb

