=== PAGE 2 ===
MISSION
AACN Certification Corporation drives patient health and safety through comprehensive credentialing of acute
and critical care nurses, advancing practice consistent with standards of excellence.
VISION
All nurses caring for acutely and critically ill patients and their families are certified.
VALUES
As the Corporation advances its mission and vision to fulfill its purpose and inherent obligation of driving the
health and safety of patients experiencing acute and critical illness, we are guided by a set of deeply rooted
values. These values are the foundation upon which we build our relentless pursuit of excellence.
• Integrity – We demonstrate sound judgment, ethical behavior and accountability in all we do.
• Inclusion – We cultivate an inclusive culture, where everyone contributes their unique strengths and
perspectives.
• Transformation – We drive change and innovation to positively impact the healthcare system and improve
the lives of patients, families and nurses.
• Leadership – We advocate and influence to achieve optimal outcomes and healthy work environments.
• Relationships – We collaborate and advance partnerships, honoring each individual to strengthen the
collective.
ETHICS
AACN and AACN Certification Corporation consider the American Nurses Association (ANA) Code of Ethics for
Nurses foundational for nursing practice, providing a framework for making ethical decisions and fulfilling
responsibilities to the public, colleagues and the profession. AACN Certification Corporation’s mission of public
protection supports a standard of excellence where certified nurses have a responsibility to read about,
understand and act in a manner congruent with the ANA Code of Ethics for Nurses.
The following AACN Certification Corporation programs have been accredited by the Accreditation Board for
Specialty Nursing Certification (ABSNC).
CCRN® (Adult) CCRN® (Pediatric) CCRN® (Neonatal) PCCN® (Adult) ACNPC-AG®
CMC® CSC® ACCNS-AG® ACCNS-N® ACCNS-P®
Our advanced practice certification programs, ACCNS-AG, ACCNS-P, ACCNS-N and ACNPC-AG, are in alignment
with the Consensus Model for APRN Regulation and other foundational national standards for APRN education,
accreditation and regulation.

=== PAGE 3 ===
Certification Organization for the American Association of Critical-Care Nurses
CCRN EXAM HANDBOOK
Direct Care Eligibility Pathway
Acute/Critical Care Certification — Adult, Pediatric, Neonatal
As healthcare becomes increasingly complex and challenging, certification has emerged as a mark of excellence showing
patients, employers and the public that a nurse possesses a defined body of knowledge and has met the rigorous
requirements to achieve specialty and/or subspecialty certification.
AACN Certification Corporation programs were created to protect healthcare consumers by validating the knowledge of
nurses who care for and/or influence the care delivered to the acutely and critically ill. We are pleased to provide you with
this handbook with information about our programs and how to apply for and take the CCRN certification exam - Direct Care
Eligibility Pathway.
Today, nurses hold more than 140,000 certifications from AACN Certification Corporation.
Specialty Certifications
CCRN® is for the nurse providing care to or influencing the care of acutely/critically ill adult, pediatric or neonatal patients.
Three eligibility pathways are available:
• Direct Care - for the nurse who provides direct care to acutely/critically ill adult, pediatric or neonatal patients.
• Knowledge Professional - for the nurse who influences the care delivered to acutely/critically ill adult, pediatric or
neonatal patients, but does not primarily or exclusively provide direct care.
• Tele-critical Care - for the nurse working in a tele-critical care setting monitoring/caring for acutely/critically ill
adult patients from a remote location.
PCCN® is for the progressive care nurse. Two pathways of eligibility are available:
• Direct Care - for the nurse providing direct care to acutely ill adult patients.
• Knowledge Professional - for the nurse who influences the care delivered to acutely ill adult patients, but does
not primarily or exclusively provide direct care.
Subspecialty Certifications
CMC® is for the certified nurse providing direct care to acutely/critically ill adult cardiac patients.
CSC® is for the certified nurse providing direct care to acutely/critically ill adult patients during the first 48 hours after
cardiac surgery.
Advanced Practice Certifications
ACNPC-AG® is for the nurse educated at the graduate level as an adult-gerontology acute care nurse practitioner (AGACNP).
The ACCNS credentials are for nurses educated at the graduate level as clinical nurse specialists to provide care across the
continuum from wellness through acute care:
ACCNS-AG® is for the clinical nurse specialist educated to care for adult-gerontology patients.
ACCNS-P® is for the clinical nurse specialist educated to care for pediatric patients.
ACCNS-N® is for the clinical nurse specialist educated to care for neonatal patients.
With implementation of the Consensus Model in 2015, ACNPC and CCNS are available as renewal options only:
ACNPC® is for the acute care nurse practitioner educated to provide care to adult patients.
CCNS® is for the acute/critical care clinical care specialist educated to provide care to adult, pediatric or neonatal patients.
AACN Certification Corporation’s APRN certifications are recognized for licensure in all U.S. states and territories.
We continually seek to provide quality certification programs that meet the changing needs of nurses and patients. Please
visit www.aacn.org/certification, or call 800-899-2226 for more information about the above certifications.
Thank you for your commitment to patients and their families and to becoming certified.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 i

=== PAGE 4 ===
Please direct inquiries to:
AACN Certification Corporation, 27071 Aliso Creek Road, Aliso Viejo, CA 92656
800-899-2226 • Fax: 949-362-2020 • certification@aacn.org
Please include your AACN customer number with all correspondence to AACN Certification Corporation.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 ii

=== PAGE 5 ===
Contents
Which CCRN Eligibility Pathway is Right for You? ........................................................................1
Certification Program ............................................................................................................................2
Exam Eligibility .......................................................................................................................................3
Application Fees .....................................................................................................................................4
Application Process ................................................................................................................................5
Certification Renewal .........................................................................................................................6-7
AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care ...............................................................................................8-9
Test Plans
• Adult .........................................................................................................................................10-13
• Pediatric ...................................................................................................................................16-19
• Neonatal ...................................................................................................................................22-25
Sample Questions
• Adult .........................................................................................................................................14-15
• Pediatric ...................................................................................................................................20-21
• Neonatal ........................................................................................................................................26
Exam Bibliography ..........................................................................................................................27-30
Exam Preparation Tools .......................................................................................................................31
Forms
CCRN Exam Application - Direct Care ...................................................................................32-33
CCRN Exam Honor Statement - Direct Care ........................................................................................34
The following information can be found in the Certification Exam Policy Handbook online at www.aacn.org/certhandbooks:
• AACN Certification Programs • Duplicate Score Reports
• Name and Address Changes • Recognition of Certification
• Confidentiality of Exam Application Status • Use of Credentials
• Testing Options • Denial of Certification
• Exam Scheduling and Cancellation • Revocation of Certification
• Exam Day Experience • Review and Appeal of Certification Eligibility
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 iii

=== PAGE 6 ===
Which CCRN Eligibility Pathway is Right for You?
Direct Care Knowledge Professional Tele-critical Care
Pathway Pathway Pathway
You provide direct care to acutely/ You apply knowledge that influences You monitor and care for acutely/
critically ill (adult, pediatric or the care delivered to acutely/ critically ill (adult) patients by
neonatal) patients, regardless of critically ill (adult, pediatric or camera from a centralized or remote
their geographic location. neonatal) patients, but do not tele-critical care setting that is
primarily or exclusively provide networked to the bedside.
ELIGIBILITY
direct care.
• A current, unencumbered U.S. ELIGIBILITY
RN or APRN license is required. ELIGIBILITY • A current, unencumbered U.S.
• A current, unencumbered U.S. RN or APRN license is required.
• Candidates must complete one
RN or APRN license is required.
of the following clinical practice • Candidates must complete one
hour requirement options: • Candidates must meet the of the following clinical practice
following practice requirement. hour requirement options:
Two-Year Option: Practice as an
RN or APRN for 1,750 hours Practice as an RN or APRN for Two-Year Option: Practice as
in direct care of acutely/critically 1,040 hours during the previous an RN or APRN for 1,750 hours
ill patients during the previous two years, with 260 of those in the care of acutely/critically
two years, with 875 of those hours accrued in the most recent ill patients in a tele-critical care
hours accrued in the most recent year preceding application. setting or in a combination of
year preceding application. tele-critical care and direct care
Eligible practice hours include
OR those in which the nurse during the previous two years,
with 875 of those hours accrued
Five-Year Option: Practice as an applies knowledge in a way
in the most recent year preceding
RN or APRN during the previous that influences patients, nurses
application.
five years with a minimum of and/or organizations to have
2,000 hours in direct care of a positive impact on the care OR
acutely/critically ill patients, with delivered to acutely/critically ill Five-Year Option: Practice
144 of those hours accrued in patients and families. as an RN or APRN during the
the most recent year preceding previous 5 years with a minimum
application. For more details, refer to the CCRN of 2,000 hours in the care of
Exam Handbook - Knowledge acutely/critically ill patients in a
For more details, explore this CCRN Professional Eligibility Pathway at tele-critical care setting or in a
Exam Handbook - Direct Care www.aacn.org/certhandbooks. combination of tele-critical care
Eligibility Pathway. and direct care, with 144 of those
hours accrued in the most recent
year preceding application.
For more details, refer to the CCRN
Exam Handbook - Tele-critical Care
Eligibility Pathway at www.aacn.
org/certhandbooks.
The majority of practice hours for CCRN eligibility must focus on critically ill patients.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 1

=== PAGE 7 ===
CCRN Certification Program
CCRN® Registered Service Mark CCRN Exam Content
CCRN is a registered service mark and denotes The CCRN exams are 3-hour tests consisting of 150
certification in acute/critical care nursing as granted multiple-choice items. Of the 150 items, 125 are scored
by AACN Certification Corporation. Registered nurses and 25 are used to gather statistical data on item
who have not achieved CCRN certification, whose CCRN performance for future exams.
certification has lapsed or who have chosen Inactive
status are not authorized to use the CCRN credential. The CCRN exams focus on the adult, pediatric or neonatal
patient population. Eighty percent (80%) of each exam
Misuse of the credential is viewed by AACN Certification focuses on Clinical Judgment and the remaining 20%
Corporation as misleading to the public and may result in covers Professional Caring and Ethical Practice.
denial or revocation of certification.
AACN Certification Corporation is transitioning to the
Although a common misconception, CCRN is not an use of generic names only for medications in exams and
acronym for “critical care registered nurse.” This would practice exam products. During the transition, exam
imply that nurses are registered as critical care nurses, candidates may continue to see items that include both
which is not accurate. generic and trade names.
Purpose and Rationale CCRN Test Plans
CCRN certification is a specialty certification for nurses The content of the CCRN exams is described in the test
who provide care to or influence the care of acutely/ plans included in this handbook. Candidates are tested
critically ill adult, pediatric or neonatal patients. on a variety of patient care problems that are organized
under major categories. Please note the percentage of
The CCRN exam is based on a study of practice, also the CCRN exam devoted to each category.
known as a job analysis. The job analysis, conducted
at least every five years, validates the knowledge, skills Passing Point/Cut Score
and experience required for safe and effective practice
A criterion-referenced standard setting process,
as an RN or APRN who provides care to or influences the
known as the modified Angoff, is used to establish the
care delivered to acutely/critically ill patients in one of
passing point/cut score for the exam. Each candidate’s
the following patient populations: adult, pediatric or
performance on the exam is measured against a
neonatal.
predetermined standard.
The test plan, which provides an outline of exam content,
The passing point/cut score for the exam is established
is developed by an expert CCRN panel based on the
using a panel of subject matter experts, a Score
results of the study of practice. The organizing framework
Evaluation Committee (SEC), who carefully reviews each
for all AACN Certification Corporation exams is the AACN
exam question to determine the basic level of knowledge
Synergy Model for Patient CareTM.
or skill that is expected. The passing point/cut score is
based on the panel’s established difficulty ratings for
Clinical practice requirements have been validated by
each exam question.
subject matter experts. The required hours of clinical
practice correspond to the third stage of competence in
Under the guidance of a psychometrician, the panel
Benner’s Stages of Clinical Competence. CCRN certification
develops and recommends the passing point/cut score,
denotes to the public those practitioners who possess
which is reviewed and approved by AACN Certification
a distinct and clearly defined body of knowledge called
Corporation. The passing point/cut score for the exam
acute/critical care nursing.
is established to identify individuals with an acceptable
level of knowledge and skill. All individuals who pass the
exam, regardless of their score, have demonstrated an
acceptable level of knowledge.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 2

=== PAGE 8 ===
CCRN Exam - Direct Care Eligibility Pathway
Licensure Orientation hours spent shadowing/working with
another nurse who is the one with the patient assignment
Current, unencumbered U.S.1 RN or APRN licensure is
cannot be counted toward clinical hours for CCRN
required.
eligibility; however, orientation hours during which you
• An unencumbered license, as defined by AACN Cert are the assigned nurse providing direct care to acutely/
Corp, is not currently being subjected to formal critically ill patients may be counted.
discipline by the board of nursing in the state(s) in
which you are practicing and has no provisions or Clinical practice hours must be completed in a
conditions that limit your nursing practice.2 U.S.-based1 or Canada-based facility or in a facility
determined to be comparable to the U.S. standard of
• Your state Board's definition of unencumbered may
acute/critical care nursing practice as evidenced by
be different from AACN Cert Corp's definition.
Magnet® designation or Joint Commission International
• Provisions or conditions may include, but are not
accreditation.
limited to, direct supervision of practice, drug
administration limitations and/or practice area
Nurses serving as manager, educator (in-service or
exclusions.
academic), APRN or preceptor may apply hours spent
• Documentation of all provisions and conditions supervising nursing students or nurses at the bedside.
from the board or its designee must be reviewed
• Nurses in these roles must be actively involved in
prior to approval for testing.
direct patient care; for example, demonstrating
• Candidates and CCRN-certified nurses must notify how to measure pulmonary artery pressures or
AACN Certification Corporation within 30 days if supervising a new employee or student nurse
any provisions or conditions are placed on their performing a procedure.
RN or APRN license(s).
Practice Verification
Practice
The name and contact information of a professional
Candidates must meet one of the following clinical associate must be given for verification of eligibility
practice requirement options: related to clinical practice hours. If you are selected for
audit, this associate will need to verify in writing that you
• Practice as an RN or APRN for 1,750 hours in direct
have met the clinical hour requirements.
care of acutely/critically ill patients during the
previous 2 years, with 875 of those hours accrued in • A professional associate is defined as your clinical
the most recent year preceding application. supervisor or a colleague (RN or physician) with
whom you work.
OR
• Practice as an RN or APRN during the previous
AACN Certification Corporation may adopt additional
5 years with a minimum of 2,000 hours in direct care
eligibility requirements at its sole discretion. Any
of acutely/critically ill patients, with 144 of those
such requirements will be designed to establish, for
hours accrued in the most recent year preceding
the purposes of CCRN certification, the adequacy of a
application.
candidate’s knowledge in care of the acutely/critically ill.
Eligible hours are those spent caring for the patient
population (adult, pediatric or neonatal) in alignment
with the exam for which you are applying. A majority of
the total practice hours and those within the year prior
to application for CCRN exam eligibility must focus on
critically ill patients.
1 Includes District of Columbia and U.S. territories of Guam, Virgin Islands, American Samoa and Northern Mariana Islands
2 If a restriction (temporary or permanent) is placed on an RN or APRN license for an incident that occurred prior to obtaining the license,
AACN Certification Corporation will evaluate such an occurrence on a case-by-case basis to determine if exam eligibility requirements are met.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 3

=== PAGE 9 ===
Application Fees
CCRN Fees Member Nonmember
Computer-Based Exam $255 $370
Retest $180 $285
Renewal by Exam $180 $285
Payable in U.S. funds. Fees are subject to change without notice. A $15 fee will be charged for a returned check.
Computer-based testing discounts are available for groups of 10 or more candidates submitting their AACN
certification exam applications in the same envelope. Employers may pre-purchase exam vouchers at a further
discounted rate.
For details about the Group Discount and Organization Discount Programs, visit www.aacn.org/certdiscounts,
email certification@aacn.org or call 800-899-2226.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 4

=== PAGE 10 ===
AACN Certification Corporation recommends that you be ready to test before applying for the CCRN exam.
Online Application Process Paper Application Process
4Register online for computer-based testing at 4Paper applications are required for those applying
www.aacn.org/certification > Get Certified with a group, for paper-and-pencil exams and for
testing outside the U.S.
4Before you get started, have available the following:
• RN or APRN license number and expiration date 4Complete the application on pages 32 and 33 and
honor statement on page 34
• Name, address, phone and email address of your
clinical supervisor or a professional colleague • Fill in all requested information, including that
(RN or physician) who can verify your practice for your RN or APRN license
eligibility 4Include application fee
• Credit card (Visa, MasterCard, Discover or • Credit card, check or money order
American Express)
4Allow 2 to 4 weeks for processing
4Same day processing
Use your legal name on the application.
This name must match photo identification used for exam entry
and will be the name printed on your certificate.
▼
1. Receive confirmation email
• After you successfully apply for the exam, you will receive a confirmation email from AACN with information
about how to schedule your exam appointment. The email will include the eligibility period during which
you must take the exam — normally a 90-day window, but currently a 180-day window.
• If you do not receive your confirmation email after applying for an exam, please contact AACN Customer
Care at 800-899-2226 or certcorp@aacn.org.
2. Schedule your exam
• In your confirmation email from AACN, you will find a link to schedule your exam appointment. In your
AACN customer dashboard, you will also find a “Schedule Exam” link. Both links will take you to the AACN
Scheduling page.
• Before selecting an exam date, you will need to choose your preferred computer-based testing option — at a
PSI Testing Center or via Live Remote Proctoring from your computer in a quiet, private location. For details,
refer to the Certification Exam Policy Handbook online at www.aacn.org/certhandbooks.
• If you are taking a paper-and-pencil exam or testing outside the U.S., AACN and PSI will coordinate with you
to schedule your exam appointment.
3. Sit for the exam
• Upon completion of computer-based exams, results will show on-screen and a detailed score report will be
emailed to you within 24 hours.
• Results of paper-and-pencil exams are received by mail 6 to 8 weeks following testing.
• Successful candidates will be mailed their wall certificate approximately 4-6 weeks after testing. Certificants are
also able to self-print a certificate through their AACN Dashboard; log into AACN.org and select Certification.
More information will be provided in your congratulations email.
Please ensure that AACN has your current contact information on record.
Updates may be made online at www.aacn.org/myaccount or emailed to info@aacn.org.
For name changes, please call AACN Customer Care at 800-899-2226.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 5

=== PAGE 11 ===
CCRN Renewal - Direct Care Pathway
Purpose and Limitations of Renewal Renewal Eligibility Pathways
Options Three renewal eligibility pathways are available to CCRN
The purpose of certification renewal is to promote certificants.
continued competence. The renewal process helps
to maintain an up-to-date knowledge base through CCRN - Direct Care Pathway
continuing education and practice hours, or practice
If you primarily or exclusively provide direct care to
hours and passing the certification exam.
acutely/critically ill patients (population matching
certification held - adult, pediatric or neonatal) in
Following are the limitations to the components of the
specialty areas such as intensive care units, cardiac
renewal options:
care units, combined ICU/CCUs, trauma units or critical
• CE/CERP limitations include content quality and care transport/flight, CCRN renewal via the Direct Care
relevance to practice as well as an individual’s Eligibility Pathway may be an option.
ability to self-select CE/CERPs most pertinent to the
individual’s practice and educational needs. For more details, refer to the CCRN Renewal Handbook -
Direct Care Eligibility Pathway online at www.aacn.org/
• Limitations of practice hours include the quality
certhandbooks.
of the practice environment and limitations on
learning opportunities.
CCRN - Knowledge Professional Pathway
• One limitation of the exam is not assessing new
If you apply knowledge in a way that influences patients,
competencies, as exam competencies were
nurses and/or organizations to have a positive impact
validated through initial certification.
on the care delivered to acutely/critically ill patients
(population matching certification held - adult, pediatric
Requiring two components for renewal rather than
or neonatal), but do not primarily or exclusively provide
one decreases the limitations and furthers the goal of
direct care, CCRN renewal via the Knowledge Professional
continued competence.
Eligibility Pathway may be an option.
Renewal Period
For more details, refer to the CCRN Renewal Handbook
CCRN certification is granted for a period of 3 years. Your - Knowledge Professional Eligibility Pathway online at
certification period begins the first day of the month in www.aacn.org/certhandbooks.
which the CCRN certification exam is passed and ends
3 years later; for example, February 1, 2023 through CCRN - Tele-critical Care Pathway
January 31, 2026.
If you focus on monitoring and caring for acutely/critically
ill adult patients by camera from a centralized or remote
You have up to 90 days beyond your certification
tele-critical care setting that is networked to the bedside,
expiration date to renew; however, practice hours and
CCRN renewal via the Tele-critical Care Eligibility Pathway
CERP's must have been completed during the 3-year
may be an option.
period of your certification date. CERPs or practice
hours cannot be accumulated during the 90-day grace
For more details, refer to the CCRN Renewal Handbook
period.
- Tele-critical Care Eligibility Pathway online at www.
aacn.org/certhandbooks.
Renewal notifications will be emailed to you starting
4 months before your scheduled CCRN renewal date. continued
You are responsible for renewing your certification
even if you do not receive renewal notification. Refer
to www.aacn.org/certification > Renew Certification for
current information.
1 Includes District of Columbia and U.S. territories of Guam, Virgin Islands, American Samoa and Northern Mariana Islands
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 6

=== PAGE 12 ===
CCRN Renewal - Direct Care Pathway (continued)
Renewal Eligibility Options
You may seek CCRN certification renewal via Renewal
by Synergy CERPs or Renewal by Exam, or you may
choose Inactive, Retired or Alumnus status. Online
Renewal is available to all active certificants as early
as 4 months prior to their scheduled renewal date. Visit
www.aacn.org/certification > Renew Certification.
Option 1 - Renewal by Synergy CERPs
• Meet eligibility requirements for CCRN renewal and
complete the Continuing Education Recognition
Point (CERP) Program, which requires 100 CERPs in
various categories (A, B & C).
• You must retain evidence of your achievement of
the required CERPs. Up to 3 years following your
scheduled renewal date, you may be selected for
audit.
Option 2 - Renewal by Exam
• Meet the eligibility requirements for CCRN renewal
and successfully apply for and schedule your exam.
• The CCRN exam must be completed before your
scheduled renewal date. You may not take the exam
early, then attempt to renew by CERPs if you do not
pass.
• This option is unavailable in the last month of the
renewal period.
Option 3 - Inactive Status
• Inactive status is available to CCRN-certified
nurses who do not meet the renewal eligibility
requirements but do not wish to lose their
certification status. Inactive status provides
additional time, up to 3 years from the scheduled
renewal date, to meet the renewal eligibility
requirements.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 7

=== PAGE 13 ===
AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care
Synergy is an evolving phenomenon that occurs when individuals work together in mutually enhancing ways toward
a common goal. AACN Certification Corporation is committed to ensuring that certified nursing practice is based on
the needs of patients. Integration of the AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care into AACN Certification Corporation’s
certification programs puts emphasis on the patient and says to the world that patients come first.
The Synergy Model creates a comprehensive look at the patient. It puts the patient in the center of nursing practice.
The model identifies nursing’s unique contributions to patient care and uses language to describe the professional
nurse’s role. It provides nursing with a venue that clearly states what we do for patients and allows us to start linking
ourselves to, and defining ourselves within, the context of the patient and patient outcomes.
Patient Characteristics
The Synergy Model encourages nurses to view patients in a holistic manner rather than the “body systems” medical
model. Each patient and family is unique, with a varying capacity for health and vulnerability to illness. Each patient,
regardless of the clinical setting, brings a set of unique characteristics to the care situation. Depending on where they
are on the healthcare continuum, patients may display varying levels of the following characteristics:
Capacity to return to a restorative level of functioning using compensatory/coping mechanisms; the ability to
Resiliency
bounce back quickly after an insult
Vulnerability Susceptibility to actual or potential stressors that may adversely affect patient outcomes
Stability Ability to maintain a steady-state equilibrium
Complexity Intricate entanglement of two or more systems (e.g., body, family, therapies)
Extent of resources (e.g., technical, fiscal, personal, psychological and social) the patient/family/community
Resource Availability
bring to the situation
Participation in Care Extent to which patient/family engages in aspects of care
Participation in
Extent to which patient/family engages in decision-making
Decision-Making
Predictability A characteristic that allows one to expect a certain course of events or course of illness
FOR EXAMPLE:
A healthy, uninsured, 40-year-old woman undergoing a pre-employment physical could be described as an individual
who is (a) stable (b) not complex (c) very predictable (d) resilient (e) not vulnerable (f) able to participate in decision-
making and care, but (g) has inadequate resource availability.
On the other hand: a critically ill, insured infant with multisystem organ failure can be described as an individual who
is (a) unstable (b) highly complex (c) unpredictable (d) highly resilient (e) vulnerable (f) unable to become involved in
decision-making and care, but (g) has adequate resource availability.
continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 8

=== PAGE 14 ===
AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care (continued)
Nurse Characteristics
Nursing care reflects an integration of knowledge, skills and experience necessary to meet the needs of patients and
families. Thus, nurse characteristics are derived from patient needs and include:
Clinical reasoning, which includes clinical decision-making, critical thinking and a global grasp of the situation,
Clinical Judgment coupled with nursing skills acquired through a process of integrating education, experiential knowledge and
evidence-based guidelines.
Working on another’s behalf and representing the concerns of the patient/family and nursing staff; serving as
Advocacy/
a moral agent in identifying and helping to resolve ethical and clinical concerns within and outside the clinical
Moral Agency
setting.
Nursing activities that create a compassionate, supportive and therapeutic environment for patients and staff,
with the aim of promoting comfort and healing and preventing unnecessary suffering. These caring behaviors
Caring Practices
include but are not limited to vigilance, engagement and responsiveness of caregivers. Caregivers include
family and healthcare personnel.
Working with others (e.g., patients, families, healthcare providers) in a way that promotes/encourages each
Collaboration person’s contributions toward achieving optimal/realistic patient/family goals. Collaboration involves intra- and
inter-disciplinary work with colleagues and community.
Body of knowledge and tools that allow the nurse to manage whatever environmental and system resources
Systems Thinking
that exist for the patient/family and staff, within or across healthcare systems and non-healthcare systems.
The sensitivity to recognize, appreciate and incorporate differences into the provision of care. Differences may
Response to Diversity include, but are not limited to, individuality, cultural, spiritual, gender, race, ethnicity, lifestyle, socioeconomic,
age and values.
Facilitation of The ability to facilitate learning for patients/families, nursing staff, other members of the healthcare team and
Learning community. Includes both formal and informal facilitation of learning.
The ongoing process of questioning and evaluating practice and providing informed practice. Creating changes
Clinical Inquiry
through evidence-based practice, research utilization and experiential knowledge.
Nurses become competent within each continuum at a level that best meets the fluctuating needs of their population
of patients. More compromised patients have more severe or complex needs, requiring nurses to have advanced
knowledge and skills in an associated continuum.
FOR EXAMPLE:
If the patient was stable but unpredictable, minimally resilient and vulnerable, primary competencies of the nurse would
be centered on clinical judgment and caring practices (which includes vigilance). If the patient was vulnerable, unable
to participate in decision-making and care, and had inadequate resource availability, the primary competencies of the
nurse would focus on advocacy and moral agency, collaboration and systems thinking.
Although all eight competencies are essential for contemporary nursing practice, each assumes more or less
importance depending on a patient’s characteristics. Synergy results when a patient’s needs and characteristics are
matched with the nurse’s competencies.
Based on the most recent AACN Certification Corporation study of nursing practice, the test plans for our certification
exams reflect the Synergy Model as well as findings related to nursing care of the patient population studied, e.g., adult,
pediatric and neonatal.
For more information about the AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care visit www.aacn.org.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 9

=== PAGE 15 ===
Adult CCRN Test Plan
Applies to exams taken on and after November 12, 2025.
I. CLINICAL JUDGMENT (80%) C. Endocrine, Hematology/Immunology, GI, Renal/
GU, Integumentary (21%)
A. Cardiovascular (13%)
1. Endocrine
1. Acute coronary syndrome
a. Adrenal insufficiency
2. Aortic aneurysm, dissection, rupture (i.e.
thoracic, abdominal) b. Diabetes insipidus (DI)
3. Cardiac infection and inflammatory diseases c. Diabetes mellitus, types 1 and 2
4. Cardiac surgery d. Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA)
5. Cardiac tamponade e. Hyperglycemia
6. Cardiac trauma f. Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS)
7. Cardiac/vascular catheterization g. Syndrome of inappropriate of antidiuretic
hormone secretion (SIADH)
8. Cardiogenic shock
h. Thyroid disorders
9. Cardiomyopathy
2. Hematology and Immunology
10. Dysrhythmias
a. Anemia
11. Heart failure
b. Autoimmune disorders (e.g., lupus,
12. Hypertensive crisis
myasthenia gravis, Guillain-Barré
13. Myocardial conduction system defects (e.g.,
syndrome)
prolonged QT interval, Wolff-Parkinson-White)
c. Coagulopathies (e.g., ITP, DIC, HIT)
14. Structural heart defects (acquired and
d. Myelosuppression (e.g., thrombocytopenia,
congenital, including valvular disease)
neutropenia)
15. Vascular disorders (e.g., arterial/venous
e. Oncologic complications (e.g., tumor lysis
stenosis)
syndrome, neutropenia)
16. Vascular interventions (e.g., stents, fem-pop
f. Transfusion reactions (e.g., TRALI, TACO)
bypass, carotid endarterectomy)
3. Gastrointestinal
B. Respiratory (12%) a. Abdominal compartment syndrome
1. Acute pulmonary edema b. Acute abdominal trauma
2. Acute pulmonary embolus c. Acute GI hemorrhage
3. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) d. Bowel infarction, obstruction, perforation
(e.g., mesenteric ischemia, adhesions)
4. Acute respiratory failure
e. GI surgeries (e.g., Whipple, esophagectomy,
5. Acute respiratory infection (e.g., pneumonia)
resections)
6. Chronic conditions (e.g., COPD, asthma,
f. Hepatic failure/coma (e.g., portal
bronchitis, emphysema)
hypertension, cirrhosis, esophageal varices,
7. Mechanical ventilation complications
fulminant hepatitis, biliary atresia)
8. Pleural space abnormalities
g. Liver disease
(e.g., pneumothorax, hemothorax, empyema,
h. Malnutrition and malabsorption
pleural effusions)
i. Pancreatitis
9. Pulmonary hemorrhage
j. Peritonitis
10. Pulmonary hypertension
4. Renal and Genitourinary
11. Status asthmaticus
a. Acute kidney injury (AKI), acute tubular
12. Thoracic and airway trauma (e.g., fractured rib,
necrosis (ATN)
lung contusion, tracheal perforation)
b. Chronic kidney disease (CKD)
13. Thoracic surgery
c. Infections (e.g., kidney, urosepsis)
continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 10

=== PAGE 16 ===
Adult CCRN Test Plan (continued)
Endocrine, Hematology/Immunology, GI, Renal/ h. Self-harm
GU, Integumentary (cont.) i. Substance use disorder
5. Integumentary j. Suicidal ideation and/or behaviors
a. Cellulitis
b. IV infiltration E. Multisystem (16%)
c. Necrotizing fasciitis 1. Acid-base imbalance
d. Pressure injury 2. Anoxic injury
e. Skin failure (e.g., perfusion injuries) 3. Burns
f. Wounds 4. Comorbidity in patients with transplant history
5. Palliative care
D. Musculoskeletal, Neurological, Behavioral/ 6. End-of-life
Psychosocial (18%)
7. Failure to thrive
1. Musculoskeletal 8. Fluid and electrolyte imbalances
a. Compartment syndrome 9. Healthcare-associated infections
b. Fractures 10. Infectious diseases
c. Muscular deconditioning 11. Life-threatening maternal/fetal complications
d. Musculoskeletal trauma (e.g., eclampsia, HELLP syndrome, maternal/
2. Neurological fetal transfusion, placental abruption, placenta
previa)
a. Acute spinal cord injury
12. Multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS)
b. Brain death
13. Obesity related complications
c. Encephalopathy
14. Pain
d. Stroke (e.g., hemorrhagic, ischemic)
15. Rhabdomyolysis
e. Hydrocephalus
16. Sepsis
f. Neurogenic shock
17. Shock states (e.g., distributive, obstructive)
g. Neurologic infectious disease (e.g., viral,
bacterial, fungal) 18. Sleep disruption (including sensory overload)
h. Neurological storming 19. Submersion injuries (near-drowning)
i. Neuromuscular disorders (e.g., ALS, 20. Systemic inflammatory response syndrome
neuromyopathies) (SIRS)
j. Neurosurgery 21. Thermoregulation
k. Neurovascular abnormalities 22. Toxic ingestion/inhalations/exposure
l. Seizure disorders
II. PROFESSIONAL CARING & ETHICAL PRACTICE (20%)
m. Space-occupying lesions (e.g., brain tumors,
cysts) A. Advocacy/Moral Agency
n. Spinal surgeries B. Caring Practices
o. Traumatic brain injury (e.g., epidural,
C. Clinical Inquiry
subdural, concussion, non-accidental
D. Collaboration
trauma)
3. Behavioral and Psychosocial E. Facilitation of Learning
a. Agitation F. Response to Diversity
b. Anti-social behaviors, aggression, violence
G. Systems Thinking
c. Delirium
The sum of these percentages may not equal 100 due to
d. Medical non-adherence
rounding.
e. Mood disorders, depression, anxiety
f. Post-intensive care syndrome (PICS) Order of content does not necessarily reflect importance.
g. Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 11

=== PAGE 17 ===
Adult CCRN Test Plan
Testable Nursing Actions
CLINICAL JUDGMENT Respiratory
General • Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
• Conduct pain assessments
○ airway management
• Evaluate patient’s response to interventions
○ bronchoscopy
• Assess, evaluate & prioritize data collections based
○ chest tubes
on patient characteristics related to the immediate
condition and anticipated needs ○ mechanical ventilation
• Manage device alarms based on change in patient ○ noninvasive positive pressure ventilation
condition (e.g., BiPAP, CPAP, high-flow nasal cannula)
• Manage patient fluid and electrolyte balance ○ oxygen therapy delivery devices
• Provide patient and family-centered care ○ prevention of complications related to
mechanical ventilation and NIPPV
• Recognize signs and symptoms of emergencies,
initiate interventions, and seek assistance as needed ○ prone positioning
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/ ○ rapid sequence intubation (RSI)
requiring: ○ respiratory monitoring devices (e.g., SPO2,
○ capnography (ETCO2) SVO2, ETCO2)
○ complementary alternative medicine and/or ○ therapeutic gases (e.g., oxygen, nitric oxide,
non-pharmacologic interventions heliox, CO2)
○ intrahospital transport ○ thoracentesis
○ medications (e.g., safe administration, ○ tracheostomy
monitoring, polypharmacy)
Hematology and Immunology
○ pre- and post-operative care
○ procedural care • Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
○ sedation
○ bleeding and clotting disorders
○ vascular access
○ blood dyscrasias (e.g., anemia)
Cardiovascular ○ transfusion of blood products, exchange
transfusions, massive transfusions
• Identify, interpret and respond to cardiac rhythms
• Monitor hemodynamic status and recognize signs and
Neurological
symptoms of hemodynamic instability
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
• Recognize early signs of decreased cardiac output
requiring:
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
○ continuous EEG monitoring
requiring:
○ neuroendovascular interventions (e.g., coiling,
○ cardiac catheterization
thrombectomy)
○ endovascular procedures
○ neurologic surgical monitoring devices and
○ mechanical circulatory support devices drains (e.g., ICP, ventricular drain)
○ non-invasive and invasive hemodynamic ○ neurosurgical procedures (e.g., craniotomy,
monitoring craniectomy, clipping)
○ pericardiocentesis ○ seizure precautions
○ temporary pacing ○ spinal precautions
○ swallow evaluation
continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 12

=== PAGE 18 ===
Adult CCRN Test Plan
Testable Nursing Actions (continued)
Integumentary Behavioral and Psychosocial
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/ • conduct behavioral therapeutic interventions
requiring: • respond to behavioral emergencies (e.g., nonviolent
○ pressure injury prevention crisis intervention, de-escalation techniques)
○ therapeutic devices (e.g., wound VACs, pressure • utilize behavioral assessment tools (e.g., delirium,
reduction surfaces, ostomy device, fecal alcohol withdrawal, mini-mental status)
management devices, IV infiltrate treatment)
Gastrointestinal
• Address barriers to nutritional/fluid adequacy (e.g.,
chewing/swallowing difficulties, alterations in
hunger and thirst, inability to self-feed)
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
○ EGD
○ enteral and parenteral nutrition
○ enteral tubes
○ feeding and supplementation
○ gastrointestinal drains
Renal and Genitourinary
• Identify nephrotoxic agents
• Recognize indications for and manage patients
requiring renal therapeutic intervention
(e.g., hemodialysis, CRRT, peritoneal dialysis)
Musculoskeletal
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
○ compartment syndrome
○ early mobility
Multisystem
• Early sepsis identification
• Monitor and implement strategies to prevent hospital
acquired infections
• Recognize and manage signs and symptoms of toxin/
drug exposure
• Risk factor recognition and management of
malignant hyperthermia
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
○ end-of-life and palliative care
○ extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO)
○ intra-abdominal pressure monitoring
○ organ donation
○ targeted temperature management
○ temperature monitoring and regulation devices
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 13

=== PAGE 19 ===
Adult CCRN Sample Questions
The purpose of the sample questions is to familiarize candidates with the style and format of the certification exam items.
1. A patient with advanced heart failure secondary 3. A patient with a four-year history of type I
to ischemic cardiomyopathy is admitted with diabetes is admitted with influenza. The patient
increasing orthopnea, bilateral crackles, dyspnea, is lethargic, responds only to name, and follows
and 3+ pitting edema in the lower bilateral simple commands. Skin is dry with poor turgor
extremities. The echocardiogram shows an and dry oral mucous membranes. Which condition
ejection fraction of 20%. The nurse anticipates is the MOST LIKELY cause of the patient's
which medication combination would be MOST presentation?
beneficial to improve cardiac remodeling and
A. hyponatremia
reduce symptoms of fluid overload?
B. hypovolemia
A. carvedilol and lisinopril
C. hypoglycemia
B. captopril and spironolactone
D. ketosis
C. cdigoxin and diltiazem
D. flecainide and hydralazine
4. A patient with acute respiratory distress syndrome
(ARDS) is receiving mechanical ventilation
2. An elderly patient with a history of diabetes with increasing oxygen requirements. The
and hepatic insufficiency is recovering from nurse notes decreasing breath sounds in both
hip replacement surgery. Twelve hours lower lobes and diminished chest expansion.
postoperatively, the nurse notes: Which pathophysiologic change is MOST likely
contributing to these findings?
BP 88/54
A. loss of surfactant and interstitial fluid
HR 118 accumulation
RR 24 B. decreased pulmonary vascular resistance and
T 101.8° F (38.7° C) hypoxemia
C. increased pulmonary compliance and hypoxemia
Surgical site: erythema, swelling, and urulent
D. mucosal edema and mucus plugging
drainage WBC 18,500/mm3
Cultures grow Staphylococcus species.
Which intervention should the nurse anticipate as
the highest PRIORITY?
A. Administer antipyretics and monitor temperature
trends.
B. Intiate broad-spectrum IV antibiotics while
monitoring hemodynamics.
C. Prepare for urgent surgical debridement and
possible return to the operating room.
D. Initiate agressive wound dressing changes at the
bedside. continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 14

=== PAGE 20 ===
Adult CCRN Sample Questions (continued)
5. A patient with a history of angina underwent
surgical repair of an AAA. The patient is
receiving a sodium nitroprusside drip for severe
postoperative hypertension. Twelve hours later,
the patient reports new-onset back pain. Current
assessment findings are:
BP 80/60
HR 120
UO 20 mL/hr
+1 left dorsalis pedis pulse
+1 right dorsalis pedis pulse
After notifying the provider, which intervention
should the nurse anticipate as the IMMEDIATE
intervention?
A. Prepare for insertion of an intra-aortic balloon
pump.
B. Administer isotonic fluid at 200 mL/hr and prepare
for Doppler studies.
C. Obtain a computed tomography scan and prepare
for pericardiocentesis.
D. Discontue the nitroprusside infusion and prepare
for surgical intervention.
Answers
1. B
2. C
3. B
4. A
5. D
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 15

=== PAGE 21 ===
Pediatric CCRN Test Plan
Applies to exams taken on and after November 19, 2025.
I. CLINICAL JUDGMENT (80%) 2. Hematology and Immunology
A. Cardiovascular (11%) a. Anemia
b. Bone marrow transplant
1. Cardiac infection and inflammatory diseases
c. Coagulopathies (e.g., ITP, DIC, HIT)
2. Cardiac malformations
d. Immune deficiencies
3. Cardiac surgery
e. Myelosuppression (e.g., thrombocytopenia,
4. Cardiac transplant
neutropenia)
5. Cardiac/vascular catheterization
f. Oncologic complications (e.g., tumor lysis
6. Cardiogenic shock
syndrome, neutropenia)
7. Cardiomyopathies
g. Sickle cell crisis
8. Dysrhythmias
h. Transfusion reactions (e.g., TRALI, TACO)
9. Heart failure
3. Gastrointestinal
10. Hepertensive crisis
a. Abdominal compartment syndrome
11. Myocardial conduction system defects (e.g.,
b. Acute abdominal trauma
prolonged QT interval, Wolff-Parkinson-White)
c. Acute GI hemorrhage
12. Vascular occlusions
d. Bowel infarction/obstruction/perforation
(e.g., mesenteric ischemia, adhesions)
B. Respiratory (13%)
e. GI abnormalities
1. Acute pulmonary embolus
f. GI surgeries (e.g., Whipple, esophagectomy,
2. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
resections)
3. Acute respiratory failure
g. Hepatic disease and failure/coma
4. Acute respiratory infection
h. Liver transplant
5. Chronic respiratory failure
i. Malnutrition and malabsorption
6. Chrnoic pulmonary conditions
j. Peritonitis
7. Airway malformations
4. Renal and Genitourinary
8. Pulmonary hypertension
a. Acute kidney injury (AKI)
9. Status asthmaticus
b. Chronic kidney disease (CKD)
10. Thoracic and airway trauma (e.g., fractured rib,
c. Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS)
lung contusion, tracheal perforation)
d. Kidney transplant
11. Thoracic surgery
e. Life-threatening electrolyte imbalances
5. Integumentary
C. Endocrine, Hematology/Immunology, GI, Renal/
a. IV infiltration/extravasation
GU, Integumentary (25%)
b. Pressure injury
1. Endocrine
c. Skin failure (e.g., hypoperfusion)
a. Diabetes mellitus
d. Wounds
b. Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA)
c. Hyperglycemia
d. Hypoglycemia
e. Diabetes insipidus (DI), syndrome of
inappropriate antidiuretic hormone
secretion (SIADH), cerebral salt wasting
(CSW) continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 16

=== PAGE 22 ===
Pediatric CCRN Test Plan (continued)
D. Musculoskeletal, Neurological, Behavioral/ II. PROFESSIONAL CARING & ETHICAL PRACTICE (20%)
Psychosocial (15%)
A. Advocacy/Moral Agency
1. Musculoskeletal
B. Caring Practices
a. Compartment syndrome
C. Clinical Inquiry
b. Musculoskeletal trauma
D. Collaboration
c. Rhabdomyolysis
2. Neurological E. Facilitation of Learning
a. Acute spinal cord injury F. Response to Diversity
b. Brain death G. Systems Thinking
c. Congenital neurological abnormalities
d. Delirium The sum of these percentages may not equal 100 due to
e. Encephalopathy rounding.
f. Intracranial hemorrhage
Order of content does not necessarily reflect importance.
g. Stroke
h. Hydrocephalus
i. Neurologic infectious disease
j. Neuromuscular disorders
k. Neurosurgery
l. Seizure disorders
m. Space-occupying lesions
n. Spinal fusion
o. Traumatic brain injury
3. Behavioral and Psychosocial
a. Abuse/neglect/maltreatment
b. Medical non-adherence
c. Mood disorders, depression, anxiety
d. Post-intensive care syndrome (PICS)
e. Suicidal ideation and/or behaviors
E. Multisystem (17%)
1. Acid-base imbalance
2. Burns, thermal injury/exposure
3. End-of-life
4. Palliative care
5. Healthcare-acquired conditions (HAC)
6. Multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS)
7. Tissue and organ donation
8. Pain: acute and chronic
9. Systemic inflammatory response syndrome
(SIRS)
10. Sepsis
11. Shock states (e.g., distributive, hypovolemic,
obstructive)
12. Submersion injuries (near-drowning)
13. Toxic ingestion/inhalation/exposure
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 17

=== PAGE 23 ===
Pediatric CCRN Test Plan
Testable Nursing Actions
CLINICAL JUDGMENT Cardiovascular
General • Identify, interpret and respond to cardiac rhythms
• Monitor hemodynamic status and recognize signs
• Identify signs and symptoms of clinical deterioration,
and symptoms of hemodynamic instability
initiate nursing interventions, and seek assistance as
needed • Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
• Conduct a comprehensive physical and psychosocial
assessment ○ 12-lead ECG
• Evaluate diagnostic test results and anticipate ○ cardioversion (pharmacologic, non-
interventions pharmacologic, electrical)
• Interpret laboratory and blood gas results and
○ defibrillation
anticipate interventions
○ invasive hemodynamic monitoring (e.g., arterial
• Provide family-centered care
catheter, central venous pressure monitoring)
• Conduct developmentally appropriate pain
assessment ○ near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS)
• Manage tissue and organ donors ○ temporary pacing
• Manage monitor alarms based on protocols and ○ ventricular assist device (VAD)
changes in patient condition
• Prevention and management of healthcare acquired
Respiratory
conditions/events
• Assess and prevent complications related to
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
mechanical ventilation
requiring:
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
○ complementary alternative medicine and/or
requiring:
non-pharmacologic interventions
○ artificial airways (e.g., endotracheal tube,
○ intra-procedural and post-procedural care tracheostomy, LMA)
○ medications (e.g., safe administration, ○ non-invasive ventilation (e.g., BiPAP, CPAP,
monitoring, polypharmacy, sedation) high-flow nasal cannula)
○ fluid and electrolyte replacement ○ invasive ventilation (e.g., conventional
mechanical ventilation)
○ palliative care
○ non-conventional mechanical ventilation (e.g.,
○ end-of-life care high-frequency, jet)
○ pre- and post-operative care ○ chest tubes
○ procedural sedation ○ prone positioning
○ rapid sequence itubation (RSI)
○ temperature monitoring and regulation devices
○ therapeutic gases (e.g., oxygen, nitric oxide,
○ bone fracture prevention and/or treatment
heliox, CO2)
○ vascular access
Hematology and Immunology
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
○ plasmapheresis, exchange transfusion, or
leukocyte depletion
○ transfusion of blood and blood products
continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 18

=== PAGE 24 ===
Pediatric CCRN Test Plan
Testable Nursing Actions (continued)
Neurological Behavioral and Psychosocial
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/ • Conduct behavioral assessment (e.g., delirium,
requiring: withdrawal)
○ neuroprotective protocols • Manage patients requiring behavioral and mental
○ neurologic monitoring devices and drains (e.g., health interventions
ICP, ventricular drain) • Respond to behavioral emergencies (e.g., nonviolent
○ seizure precautions crisis intervention, de-escalation techniques)
○ spinal precautions • Recognize indications for and manage patients
requiring restraints
○ brain death assessment
Integumentary
• Prevent and manage surgical site infection
• Manage patients requiring wound prevention and/or
treatment
Gastrointestinal
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
○ intra-abdominal pressure monitoring
○ inadequate nutrition and fluid intake
○ enteral and parenteral nutrition
○ enteral tubes
○ gastrointestinal drains
○ necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC)
Renal and Genitourinary
• Recognize indications for and manage patients
requiring renal therapeutic intervention (e.g.,
hemodialysis, CRRT, peritoneal dialysis)
Multisystem
• Early and late sepsis identification and treatment
• Monitor and implement strategies to prevent hospital
acquired infections
• Recognize indications for and manage patients
requiring progressive mobility
• Manage patients requiring extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation (ECMO)
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 19

=== PAGE 25 ===
Pediatric CCRN Sample Questions
The purpose of the sample questions is to familiarize candidates with the style and format of the certification exam items.
1. A toddler with a history of unrepaired Tetralogy of 3. A child is admitted with colitis develops increased
Fallot (TOF) is undergoing IV insertion. During the respiratory distress, progressive abdominal
procedure, the child begins to cry and becomes distention, and delayed capillary refill greater than
cyanotic and diaphoretic. Vital signs are: 4 seconds, eight hours after admission. The nurse
should suspect
BP 82/54
A. splenic rupture.
HR 160
B. intussusception.
RR 38
C. malrotation with volvulus.
SpO2 72%
D. bowel perforation.
Which intervention is the most appropriate
IMMEDIATE nursing action? 4. An infant admitted with encephalitis becomes
increasingly lethargic, exhibits irregular
A. prepare for a red blood cell transfusion respirations with brief periods of apnea, and has a
B. apply a face mask with supllemental oxygen weak cry. Vital signs are:
C. place the child in a knee-chest position BP 82/48
D. administer a premedication for IV insertion HR 158
RR 22, irregular
2. An adolescent with a history of recurrent T 102.6° F (38.6° C)
admissions for chronic status asthmaticus is
SpO2 93% on room air
being prepared for discharge. During discharge
teaching, the nurse determines that the patient has
Which assessment should the nurse perform
not been compliant with prescribed medications,
FIRST?
stating they make them feel "too different" from
their peers. Which nursing action is the most
A. Evaluate pupillary size and reactivity.
appropriate NEXT step?
B. Assess Glasgow Coma Scale and document level of
A. Explore the patient’s feelings about peer
consciousness.
acceptance and collaboratively plan strategies to
improve adherence. C. Check capillary blood glucose level.
B. Review the risks of nonadherence and D. Assess airway patency and prepare for possible
collaboratively develop a written action plan. ventilatory support.
C. Encourage the patient to demonstrate proper
inhaler technique and reinforce daily usage.
D. Contact the provider to review the regimen and
discuss possible medication adjustments.
continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 20

=== PAGE 26 ===
Pediatric CCRN Sample Questions (continued)
5. A 15-year-old is admitted with hypovolemic shock
following three days of severe vomiting and poor
oral intake. The patient is pale, anxious, and has
cool, clammy skin. Vital signs are:
BP 85/54
HR 128
RR 26
SpO2 91% on room air
Which action should the nurse perform FIRST?
A. Administer oxygen via nonrebreather mask.
B. Prepare for endotracheal intubation.
C. Anticipate placement of a central venous catheter.
D. Prepare for rapid infusion of isotonic fluids.
Answers
1. C
2. A
3. D
4. D
5. A
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 21

=== PAGE 27 ===
Neonatal CCRN Test Plan
Applies to exams taken on and after November 12, 2025.
I. CLINICAL JUDGMENT (80%) 2. Hematology and Immunology
A. Cardiovascular (10%) a. Blood cell disorders (e.g., anemias,
polycythemia, sickle cell disease,
1. Acquired cardiac conditions
leukopenia)
2. Alteration in the transition to extrauterine life
b. Coagulopathies (e.g., DIC,
(e.g., PDA, PFO, PPHN)
thrombocytopenias, hemorrhagic disease
3. Cardiac tamponade
of the newborn, factor deficiencies)
4. Congenital heart defects
c. Hemolytic disease of the newborn (e.g., Rh
5. Dysrhythmias incompatibilities, ABO incompatibilities)
6. Heart failure (e.g., high output, congestive, 3. Gastrointestinal
secondary)
a. Abnormalities - congenital or acquired (e.g.,
7. Hemodynamic instability omphalocele, gastroschisis, malrotation/
8. Surgery volvulus, imperforate anus, Hirschsprung
disease, intussusception, pyloric stenosis,
B. Respiratory (15%) atresias)
b. Gastroesophageal reflux
1. Acute respiratory distress and/or failure
c. Hepatic failure (e.g., portal hypertension,
2. Alteration in the transition to extrauterine life
biliary atresia, cholestasis)
(e.g., surfactant deficiency, secondary apnea)
d. Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC)
3. Apnea of prematurity
e. Nutritional conditions
4. Aspiration (e.g., meconium, secretions, milk,
gastric contents) i. Intolerance (e.g., feeding, protein
absorption, milk allergy)
5. Chronic conditions (e.g., CLD/BPD, PIE)
ii. Malabsorption
6. Congenital anomalies (e.g., CDH, TEF-EA,
choanal atresia, tracheal malacia/stenosis/ iii. Surgery
atresia, CPAM, chylothorax) 4. Renal and Genitourinary
7. Infection (bacterial, viral, and fungal) a. Conditions - congenital and acquired (e.g.,
8. Pleural space abnormalities (e.g., hypospadias, polycystic kidney disease,
pneumothorax, hemothorax, empyema, hydronephrosis, bladder exstrophy,
pleural effusions) posterior urethral valves, ambiguous
genitalia, AKI, CKD)
9. Pulmonary hemorrhage
b. Infections
10. Pulmonary hypertension (e.g., PPHN,
structural failure) c. Surgery
11. Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) 5. Integumentary
12. Surgery a. Complications related to neonatal skin (e.g.,
injury, transepidermal water loss, contact
13. Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN)
dermatitis)
b. Congenital abnormalities
C. Endocrine, Hematology/Immunology, GI, Renal/
(e.g., epidermolysis bullosa, skin tags,
GU, Integumentary (20%)
hemangiomas)
1. Endocrine
c. Diaper dermatitis
a. Adrenal disorders
d. Infection (bacterial, viral, and fungal)
b. Calcium homeostatis disorders
e. IV infiltration/extravasation
c. Glucose homeostasis (hypo- and
f. Skin conditions associated with gestational
hyperglycemia)
age
d. Metabolism disorders (e.g., glucose,
g. Wounds (non-surgical and surgical)
protein, fat)
continued
e. Thyroid disorders
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 22

=== PAGE 28 ===
Neonatal CCRN Test Plan (continued)
D. Musculoskeletal, Neurological, Behavioral/ 8. Hyperbilirubinemia
Psychosocial (13%) 9. Infant of a diabetic mother (IDM)
1. Musculoskeletal 10. Life-threatening maternal/fetal complications
a. Acquired conditions (e.g., osteopenia, (e.g., eclampsia, HELLP syndrome, maternal-
fractures, brachial plexus injury, infection) fetal transfusion, placental abruption, placenta
previa)
b. Congenital conditions (e.g., craniofacial,
limb, muscle, spine, osteogenesis 11. Multi-organ failure
imperfecta) 12. Sensory impairment (e.g., retinopathy of
2. Neurological prematurity, glaucoma, congenital hearing
impairment)
a. Congenital abnormalities (e.g., AV
malformation, myelomeningocele, 13. Sepsis (early and late onset)
encephalocele, hydrocephalus) 14. Sequences (e.g., VACTERL, Pierre Robin)
b. Hemorrhage (e.g., extracranial, intracranial, 15. Shock states (e.g., hypovolemic, septic,
intraventricular) cardiogenic, obstructive)
c. Infection (bacterial, viral, and fungal) 16. Terminal conditions (e.g., end-of-life, palliative
d. Ischemic insult (e.g., stroke, periventricular care, death and dying)
leukomalacia, HIE) 17. Thermoregulation
e. Seizures 18. Toxin/drug exposure (e.g., withdrawal from
f. State dysregulation (e.g., stress, pain, maternal or iatrogenic substances, fetal alcohol
agitation) spectrum syndrome)
g. Surgery
3. Behavioral and Psychosocial II. PROFESSIONAL CARING & ETHICAL PRACTICE (20%)
a. Alterations in family systems (e.g., A. Advocacy/Moral Agency
engagement, resource limitations, caregiver
B. Caring Practices
confidence, PTSD, postpartum mood
C. Clinical Inquiry
disorder)
b. Abuse/neglect/maltreatment D. Collaboration
c. Families in crisis (e.g., grief, lack of coping, E. Facilitation of Learning
violent behavioral escalation, obstruction of
F. Response to Diversity
care)
G. Systems Thinking
d. Culture/communication/language
E. Multisystem (20%) The sum of these percentages may not equal 100 due to
rounding.
1. Acid-base and fluid/electrolyte imbalance
2. Birth trauma Order of content does not necessarily reflect importance.
3. Conditions requiring advanced therapy (e.g.,
ECMO, CRRT, dialysis, therapeutic hypothermia)
4. Delay in growth and/or developmental
milestones
5. Genetic conditions
a. Metabolic
b. Syndromes (e.g., Turner, Noonan, Beckwith-
Wiedemann, Prader-Willi, Angelman,
CHARGE)
c. Trisomies (13, 18, 21)
6. Healthcare-acquired conditions (e.g., CAUTI,
CLABSI, VAE, HAPI, PIVIE, MDRO)
7. Hydrops fetalis
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 23

=== PAGE 29 ===
Neonatal CCRN Test Plan
Testable Nursing Actions
CLINICAL JUDGMENT Respiratory
• Interpret blood gas results
General
• Manage medications and monitor patients requiring
• Anticipate and recognize signs and systems of
rapid sequence intubation (RSI)
evolving patient condition
• Prevent complications related to respiratory support
• Assess and monitor based on patient's gestational
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
age
requiring:
• Identify and monitor normal and abnormal
○ alternative airways (e.g., endotracheal tube,
diagnostic test results (e.g., labs, radiology,
laryngeal mask airway (LMA))
pathology)
○ assisted ventilation (traditional and high
• Implement interventions to keep the neonates
freqency)
safe (e.g., transport, security, safe sleep, safe infant
handling, infection prevention) ○ chest tubes
• Manage equipment and/or devices relevant to ○ congenital respiratory/pulmonary
patient care abnormalities
• Manage patients receiving enteral/oral and ○ non-invasive positive pressure ventilation
parenteral medications based on gestational age and (e.g., CPAP, NIPPV, high-flow nasal cannula)
weight ○ respiratory monitoring devices (e.g., SP02, SV02,
• Provide age-appropriate developmental care ETC02)
• Provide care for families considering equity, diversity, ○ therapeutic gases (e.g., oxygen, nitric oxide,
and inclusion heliox, CO2)
• Provide pre- intra- and post-operative/procedural ○ thoracentesis
care ○ tracheostomy
• Recognize indications for advanced therapies and
Hematology and Immunology
follow protocols
• Recognize signs and systems of emergencies, initiate • Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
interventions, and seek assistance as needed requiring:
• Recognize the impact of genetics on postnatal care ○ bleeding disorders and other blood
pathophysiology
Cardiovascular ○ blood conservation techniques
• Identify, interpret and monitor cardiac rhythms ○ congenital hematology/immunology
abnormalities
• Recognize normal fetal circulation and transition to
extrauterine life ○ transfusion of blood products
• Recognize signs and symptoms of hemodynamic
instability Neurological
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/ • Implement strategies for neurologic protection/
requiring: promotion
○ congenital cardiovascular abnormalities • Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring:
○ hemodynamic monitoring (non-invasive and
invasive) ○ congenital neurological abnormailities
○ neurologic monitoring devices and drains (e.g.,
○ patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
ICP, ventricular drain)
○ pharmacologic and mechanic cardioversion
○ pain (non-pharmacologic and pharmacologic)
○ vascular access (e.g., PIVS, UVC, UAC, Midline, ○ sedation (e.g., procedural, intermittent,
PICC, tunneled, non-tunneled) continuous)
○ therapeutic hypothermia
continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 24

=== PAGE 30 ===
Neonatal CCRN Test Plan
Testable Nursing Actions (continued)
Integumentary Multisystem
• Recognize indications for, and manage patients with/ • Follow protocol for newborn screening (e.g., car seat
requiring: testing, metabolic, hearing and congenital heart
○ altered skin integrity based on gestational age disease)
• Recognize the impact of developmental physiology
○ congenital integumentary abnormalities
on postnatal care
○ infiltration/extravasation
• Promote thermoregulation based on gestational age
○ preventative and therapeutic intervention (e.g., • Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
neonatal skin care, humidity, bathing, adhesives) requiring:
○ therapeutic devices (e.g., wound VACs, pressure ○ birth trauma
reduction surfaces, ostomy device)
○ early and late onset sepsis
○ acid-base and fluid/electrolyte management
Gastrointestinal
○ palliative and end of life care
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
○ toxin/drug exposure (e.g., withdrawal from
requiring:
maternal or iatrogenic substances, fetal alcohol
○ congenital GI abnormalities
spectrum syndrome)
○ enteral and parenteral nutrition
○ enteral tubes (gastic and post-pyloric) Behavioral and Psychosocial
○ feeding diffulties and disorders • Faciliate progressive family involvement in care
○ lactation support • Recognize indications of stress and provide support
to family
○ necrotizing enterocolities (NEC)
• Respond to behavioral emergencies (e.g., nonviolent
○ peritoneal drains
crisis intervention, de-escalation techniques)
○ transition to oral feedings • Provide care for diverse families (e.g., cultural,
spiritual, LGBTQ+ community)
Renal and Genitourinary • Recognize the impacts of social determinants of
health
• Recognize indications for and manage patients with/
requiring: • Facilitate trauma informed care for families
○ congenital renal and genitourinary
abnormalities
○ fluid/electrolyte management
○ diagnostic procedures (e.g., renal biopsy,
ultrasound)
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 25

=== PAGE 31 ===
Neonatal CCRN Sample Questions
The purpose of the sample questions is to familiarize candidates with the style and format of the certification exam items.
1. A 23-week gestational age infant is reintubated 3. An infant of a diabetic mother who charts in the
at two weeks of life due to worsening 95th percentile on a growth curve is born, and at
respiratory distress after five days on CPAP. An delivery appears plethoric, lethargic, and with a
echocardiogram reveals a moderate-sized patent requirement of CPAP. The nurse suspects the most
ductus arteriosus (PDA). Vital signs are: likely cause for the infant's condition is
A. respiratory distress syndrome.
HR 178
BP 52/28 B. hypoglycemia.
RR 68 C. transient tachypnea of the newborn.
SpO2 86% on 70% FiO2 D. polycythemia.
What is the MOST LIKELY cause of the infant's 4. A newborn presents with a fluid-filled sac
respiratory failure? protruding from the lumbar region. There is no
movement in the lower extremities. The infant is
A. sepsis spontaneously breathing. Vital signs are:
B. penumothorax HR 150
C. acute pulmonary edema RR 60
D. pneumonitis T 97.7° F (36.5° C)
SpO2 94%
2. After delivery, a full-term infant was placed on a
radiant warmer. The infant has received thermal Which nursing action should be implemented
management and airway clearing. The Apgar score FIRST?
is 3 at one minute, and apnea is noted. Vital signs
are: A. Cover the sac loosely and leave it exposed to air.
B. Position the infant to prevent injury to the sac.
HR 50
RR Absent C. Administer prophylactic antibiotics immediately.
SpO2 70% on supplemental oxygen D. Swaddle the infant supine to maintain warmth.
Which NEXT step should the nurse take? 5. A two-month-old infant, delivered at home,
presents lethargic and jaundiced with poor oral
A. positive pressure ventilation intake since birth. Weight is below the second
percentile for age. Which newborn screening test
B. naloxone administration
would the nurse expect to detect this condition
C. immediate intubation before symptoms appear?
D. cardiac compression initiation A. metabolic screening
B. Coombs' blood test
C. pre- and post-ductal pulse oximetry screening
D. preprandial glucose
Answers
1. C
2. A
3. D
4. B
5. A
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 26

=== PAGE 32 ===
CCRN Exam Bibliography
References Used for Item Validation
Adult Hardin SR, Kaplow R. Synergy for Clinical Excellence:
The AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care. 2nd ed. Boston,
AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care. American
MA: Jones & Bartlett; 2017.
Association of Critical-Care Nurses website. www.aacn.
org/nursing-excellence/aacn-standards/synergy-model.
Hartjes TM, ed. Core Curriculum for High Acuity,
Progressive, and Critical Care Nursing. 8th ed. St. Louis,
American Association of Critical-Care Nurses. AACN
MO: Elsevier; 2023.
Standards for Establishing and Sustaining Healthy Work
Environments: A Journey to Excellence. 2nd ed. Aliso Viejo,
Helming MAB, Shields DA, Avino KM, Rosa WE. Dossey and
CA: AACN; 2016. www.aacn.org/~/media/aacn-website/
Keegan’s Holistic Nursing: A Handbook for Practice. 8th ed.
nursing-excellence/standards/hwestandards.pdf.
Boston, MA: Jones & Bartlett Learning; 2020.
American Diabetes Association. 2025 Standards of Care in
Hickey JV, Strayer AL. The Clinical Practice of Neurological
Diabetes. Vol. 48, American Diabetes Association; 2025.
and Neurosurgical Nursing. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA:
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2020.
American Heart Association. 2020 AHA Guidelines for
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Emergency
Ignatavicius DD, Rebar CR, Heimgartner NM. Medical-
Cardiovascular Care (ECC). Circulation, Vol. 142, Suppl. 2.
Surgical Nursing: Concepts for Clinical Judgment and
2020.
Collaborative Care. 11th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2023.
American Nurses Association. Code of Ethics for Nurses.
Infusion Nurses Society. Infusion Therapy Standards of
2025 ed. American Nurses Association; 2025.
Practice. 9th ed. Infusion Nurses Society; 2024.
Baird MS. Manual of Critical Care Nursing:
Jacobson C, Marzin K, Weber C. Cardiovascular
Interprofessional and Collaborative Management.
Nursing Practice: Cardiac Arrhythmias and 12 Lead ECG
8th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2022.
Interpretation. 3rd ed. Cardiovascular Nursing Education
Associates; 2021.
Brodie D. Extracorporeal Life Support: The ELSO Red Book.
6th ed. Extracorporeal Life Support Organization, 2022.
Johnson KL. AACN Procedure Manual for Progressive and
Critical Care. 8th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2023.
Bryant R, Nix D. Acute and Chronic Wounds:
Intraprofessionals from Novice to Expert. 6th ed. St. Louis,
Makic MB, Morata LT. Sole’s Introduction to Critical Care
MO: Elsevier; 2024.
Nursing. 9th ed. St. Louis, MO: Saunders/Elsevier; 2024.
Cain C, Miller J. AACN Scope and Standards for Progressive
McQuillan KA, Makic MBF. Trauma Nursing: From
and Critical Care Nursing Practice. Aliso Viejo, CA: AACN
Resuscitation through Rehabilitation. 5th ed. St. Louis,
Critical Care; 2019.
MO: Saunders/Elsevier; 2019.
Delgado SA. AACN Essentials of Critical Care Nursing. 5th
Miller J, Wells S. AACN Scope and Standards for
ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill; 2023.
Progressive Care Nursing Practice. Aliso Viejo, CA: AACN
Critical Care; 2025.
Delgado SA. AACN Essentials of Progressive Care Nursing.
5th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill; 2023.
Morton PG, Thurman P. Critical Care Nursing: A Holistic
Approach. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams
Emergency Nurses Association. Sheehy’s Manual of
& Wilkins; 2023.
Emergency Care. 8th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby/Elsevier;
2023.
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine’s Consensus Study Report: The Future of Nursing
Ferri F. Ferri’s Clinical Advisor. Elsevier; 2025.
2020-2030: Charting a Path to Achieve Health Equity.
National Academies Press; 2021.
Hardin SR, Kaplow R. Cardiac Surgery Essentials for
Critical Care Nursing. 4th ed. Burlington, MA: Jones &
continued
Bartlett; 2025.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 27

=== PAGE 33 ===
CCRN Exam Bibliography (continued)
Pagana KD, Pagana TJ, Pagana TN. Mosby’s Diagnostic Bolick BN, Reuter-Rice K, Madden MA, Severin PN.
and Laboratory Test Reference. 17th ed. St. Louis, MO: Pediatric Acure Care: A Guide to Interprofessional Practice.
Mosby/Elsevier; 2024. 2nd ed. Elsevier; 2020.
Perpetua EM, Keegan P. Cardiac Nursing. 7th ed. Bryant R, Nix D. Acute and Chronic Wounds:
Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2021. Intrarofessionals from Novice to Expert. 6th ed. St. Louis,
MO: Elsevier; 2024.
Skidmore-Roth L. Mosby’s 2026 Nursing Drug Reference.
39th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby/Elsevier; 2025. Delgado SA. AACN Essentials of Critical Care Nursing.
5th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill; 2023.
Stahl M, Miller J. AACN Competency Framework for
Progressive and Critical Care. Aliso Viejo, CA: AACN Critical Emergency Nurses Association. Sheehy’s Manual of
Care; 2022. Emergency Care. 8th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby/Elsevier;
2023.
Troiano N, Baird SM, Cypher R. High-Risk & Critical Care
Obstetrics. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Fuhrman BP, Zimmerman JJ. Pediatric Critical Care.
Wilkins; 2025. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2021.
Urden LD, Stacy KM, Lough ME, Sanchez K. Critical Care Gardner SL, Carter BS, Enzman-Hines MI, Niermeyer S.
Nursing: Diagnosis and Management. 10th ed. St. Louis, Merenstein & Gardner’s Handbook of Neonatal Intensive
MO: Mosby/Elsevier; 2025. Care. 9th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2020.
Vincent JL, Moore F, Bellomo R, Marini J. Textbook of Hardin SR, Kaplow R. Synergy for Clinical Excellence:
Critical Care. 8th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby/Elsevier; 2024. The AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care. 2nd ed. Boston,
MA: Jones & Bartlett; 2017.
Pediatric
Helming MAB, Shields DA, Avino KM, Rosa WE. Dossey and
AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care. American
Keegan’s Holistic Nursing: A Handbook for Practice. 8th ed.
Association of Critical-Care Nurses website. www.aacn.
Boston, MA: Jones & Bartlett Learning; 2020.
org/nursing-excellence/aacn-standards/synergy-model.
Hockenberry MJ, Duffy EA, Gibbs K. Wong’s Nursing Care
American Association of Critical-Care Nurses. AACN
of Infants and Children. 12th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier;
Standards for Establishing and Sustaining Healthy Work
2025.
Environments: A Journey to Excellence. 2nd ed. Aliso Viejo,
CA: AACN; 2016. www.aacn.org/~/media/aacn-website/
Hockenberry MJ, Gibbs K, Duffy EA. Wong’s Essentials of
nursing-excellence/standards/hwestandards.pdf.
Pediatric Nursing. 12th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2025.
American Heart Association. 2020 AHA Guidelines for
Infusion Nurses Society. Infusion Therapy Standards of
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Emergency
Practice. 9th ed., Infusion Nurses Society, 2024.
Cardiovascular Care (ECC). Circulation, vol. 142, suppl. 2,
2020.
Miller J, Wells S. AACN Scope and Standards for
Progressive Care Nursing Practice. Aliso Viejo, CA: AACN
American Nurses Association. Code of Ethics for Nurses.
Critical Care; 2025.
2025 ed. American Nurses Association; 2025.
Morton PG, Thurman, P. Critical Care Nursing: A Holistic
American Nurses Association. Pediatric Nursing: Scope
Approach. 12th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams
and Standards of Practice. 2nd ed. American Nurses
& Wilkins; 2023.
Association; 2016
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Anderson CC, Kapoor S, Mark TE. The Harriet Lane
Medicine’s Consensus Study Report: The Future of Nursing
Handbook: The Johns Hopkins Hospital. 23rd ed. Elsevier;
2020-2030: Charting a Path to Achieve Health Equity.
2023.
National Academies Press; 2021.
continued
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 28

=== PAGE 34 ===
CCRN Exam Bibliography (continued)
Pagana KD, Pagana TJ, Pagana TN. Mosby’s Diagnostic Baird MS. Manual of Critical Care Nursing:
and Laboratory Test Reference. 17th ed. St. Louis, MO: Interprofessional and Collaborative Management.
Mosby/Elsevier; 2024. 8th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2022.
Ricci S, Kyle T, Carman S. Maternity and Pediatric Nursing. Eichenwald EC, Hansen AR, Martin CR, Stark AR. Cloherty
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; and Stark’s Manual of Neonatal Care. 9th ed. Philadelphia,
2024. PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2022.
Skidmore-Roth L. Mosby’s 2026 Nursing Drug Reference. Fanaroff AA, Fanaroff JM, Klaus & Fanaroff’s Care of the
39th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby/Elsevier; 2025. High-Risk Neonate. 8th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2025.
Slota MC. AACN Core Curriculum for Pediatric High Acuity, Gardner SL, Carter BS, Enzman-Hines MI, Niermeyer S.
Progressive, and Critical Care Nursing. 4th ed. New York, Merenstein & Gardner’s Handbook of Neonatal Intensive
NY: Springer; 2025. Care. 9th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2020.
Stahl, M, Miller, J. AACN Competency Framework for Gomella TL, Eyal F, Bany-Mohammed F. Gomella’s
Progressive and Critical Care. Aliso Viejo, CA: AACN Critical Neonatology Management, Procedures, On-Call Problems,
Care; 2022. Diseases, and Drugs. 8th ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill/
Medical; 2020.
Urden LD, Stacy KM, Lough ME, Sanchez K. Critical Care
Nursing: Diagnosis and Management. 10th ed. St. Louis, Hardin SR, Kaplow R. Synergy for Clinical Excellence:
MO: Mosby/Elsevier; 2025. The AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care. 2nd ed. Boston,
MA: Jones & Bartlett; 2017.
Verklan MT, Walden M, Forest S. Core Curriculum for
Neonatal Intensive Care Nursing. 6th ed. St. Louis, MO: Helming MAB, Shields DA, Avino KM, Rosa WE. Dossey and
Elsevier; 2020. Keegan’s Holistic Nursing: A Handbook for Practice. 8th ed.
Boston, MA: Jones & Bartlett Learning; 2020.
Walsh, BK. Neonatal and Pediatric Respiratory Care.
6th ed. St. Louis, MO: Saunders/Elsevier; 2023.
Hockenberry MJ, Duffy EA, Gibbs K. Wong’s Nursing Care
of Infants and Children. 12th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier;
Neonatal 2025.
AACN Synergy Model for Patient Care. American
Association of Critical-Care Nurses website. www.aacn. Hockenberry MJ, Gibbs K, Duffy EA. Wong’s Essentials of
org/nursing-excellence/aacn-standards/synergy-model. Pediatric Nursing. 12th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2025.
American Association of Critical-Care Nurses. AACN Infusion Nurses Society. Infusion Therapy Standards of
Standards for Establishing and Sustaining Healthy Work Practice. 9th ed., Infusion Nurses Society, 2024.
Environments: A Journey to Excellence. 2nd ed. Aliso Viejo,
CA: AACN; 2016. www.aacn.org/~/media/aacn-website/ Kenner C, Altimier L, Boykova MV. Comprehensive
nursing-excellence/standards/hwestandards.pdf. Neonatal Nursing Care. 6th ed. New York, NY: Springer;
2020.
American Heart Association. 2020 AHA Guidelines for
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Emergency Martin RJ, Fanaroff AA. Fanaroff and Martin’s Neonatal-
Cardiovascular Care (ECC). Circulation, vol. 142, suppl. 2, Perinatal Medicine: Diseases of the Fetus and Infant. 12th
2020. ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2024.
American Nurses Association. Code of Ethics for Nurses. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
2025 ed. American Nurses Association; 2025. Medicine’s Consensus Study Report: The Future of Nursing
2020-2030: Charting a Path to Achieve Health Equity.
American Nurses Association. Neonatal Nursing: Scope National Academies Press; 2021.
and Standards of Practice. 3rd ed. American Nurses
continued
Association; 2021.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 29

=== PAGE 35 ===
CCRN Exam Bibliography (continued)
Pagana KD, Pagana TJ, Pagana TN. Mosby’s Diagnostic
and Laboratory Test Reference. 17th ed. St. Louis, MO:
Mosby/Elsevier; 2024.
Ricci S, Kyle T, Carman S. Maternity and Pediatric Nursing.
5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins;
2024.
Sawyer T, Gleason C. Avery’s Diseases of the Newborn.
11th ed. St. Louis, MO: Elsevier; 2024.
Skidmore-Roth L. Mosby’s 2026 Nursing Drug Reference.
39th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby/Elsevier; 2025.
Verklan MT, Walden M, Forest S. Core Curriculum for
Neonatal Intensive Care Nursing. 6th ed. St. Louis, MO:
Elsevier; 2020.
Walsh, BK. Neonatal and Pediatric Respiratory Care. 6th
ed. St. Louis, MO: Saunders/Elsevier; 2023.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 30

=== PAGE 36 ===
Exam Preparation Tools
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 31

=== PAGE 37 ===
Submit an ONLINE application at www.aacn.org/certification > Get Certified.
STAPLE CHECK HERE
CCRN Exam Application - Direct Care Pathway
1. REGISTRATION INFORMATION PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY. PROCESSING WILL BE DELAYED IF INCOMPLETE OR NOT LEGIBLE.
LEGAL NAME AS IT APPEARS ON YOUR GOVERNMENT-ISSUED ID CARD IS REQUIRED FOR EXAM.
AACN CUSTOMER: RN/APRN LICENSE:
Number Exp. Date Number State Exp. Date
LEGAL NAME:
Last First MI Maiden
HOME ADDRESS:
City State Zip
EMAIL: HOME PHONE:
EMPLOYER NAME: BUSINESS PHONE:
EMPLOYER ADDRESS:
City State Zip
2. AACN MEMBERSHIP
I would also like to join/renew/extend my AACN membership at this time and select member pricing for my exam fees:
(check one box only)
 1-year AACN membership…………………………………….......................$78
 2-year AACN membership…………………………………….......................$148
 3-year AACN membership………………………….…………......................$200
AACN membership includes nonrefundable $12 and $15 one-year subscriptions to Critical Care Nurse® and the American Journal of Critical Care®,
respectively. AACN dues are not deductible as charitable contributions for tax purposes, but may be deducted as a business expense in keeping
with Internal Revenue Service regulations.
Member exam fee ($255) + 1-year Membership ($78) = Savings of $37 over Nonmember fee Membership Fee
$__________
3. EXAM FOR WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING +
 CCRN Adult  CCRN Pediatric  CCRN Neonatal (check one box only) Exam Fee:
Initial Exam Fee Retest Fee $__________
CCRN =
AACN Member Nonmember AACN Member Nonmember
Total Payment:
Check one box only  $255  $370  $180  $285
$__________
 Check this box if you’ve attached a request and supporting documentation for special testing accommodations.
4. PAYMENT INFORMATION - application must be accompanied by payment
 Check or money order attached – payable to AACN Certification Corporation. U.S. funds only.
Bill my credit card:  Visa  MasterCard  American Express  Discover Card
Credit Card # Exp. Date (mm/yy) /
Name on Card _________________________________________ Signature ____________________________________________
Amount Billed $_____________ Address of Payor (if different than applicant) _____________________________________________
 Please do not include my name on lists sold to other organizations.
Please complete pages 2 & 3 of application.
This application form may be photocopied and is also available online at www.aacn.org/certification.
00APCCHW CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 32

=== PAGE 38 ===
Submit an ONLINE application at www.aacn.org/certification > Get Certified.
2 of 3
CCRN Exam Application - Direct Care Pathway
NAME: AACN CUSTOMER #:
Last First MI
5. DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
Check one box in each category. Information used for statistical purposes and may be used in eligibility determination.
Primary Area Employed  Subacute Care (28)  Technician (21)  Home Health (13)
 Acute Hemodialysis Unit (21)  Surgical ICU (07)  Unit Coordinator (22)  Long-Term Acute Care Hosp. (16)
 Burn Unit (13)  TeleICU (37)  Other - specify below  Military/Government Hospital (04)
 Cardiac Rehabilitation (26)  Telemetry (20)  Non-Academic Teaching Hosp. (14)
 Cardiac Surgery/OR (36)  Trauma Unit (11) _____________________________ (99)  Registry (10)
 Cardiovascular/Surgical ICU (09)  Other – specify below  Self-Employed (09)
 Catheterization Lab (22) Highest Nursing Degree  State Hospital (06)
 Combined Adult/Ped. ICU (23) _____________________________ (99)  Associate’s Degree  Travel Nurse (15)
 Combined ICU/CCU (01)  Bachelor’s Degree  University Med. Ctr. (03)
 Coronary Care Unit (03) Primary Position Held  Diploma  Other – specify below
 Corporate Industry (24)  Academic Faculty (07)  Doctorate
 Crit. Care Transport/Flight (17)  Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (09)  Master’s Degree _____________________________ (99)
 Direct Observation Unit (39)  Bedside/Staff Nurse (01)
 Emergency Dept. (12)  Case Manager (39) Ethnicity
 General Med./Surg. Floor (18)  Charge Nurse (45)  African American (02) Number of Beds in Institution:
 Home Care (25)  Clinic Nurse (40)  Asian (05)
 Intensive Care Unit (02)  Clinical Coordinator (44)  Hispanic (03) _______________________________
 Interventional Cardiology (31)  Clinical Director (04)  Native American (04)
 Long-Term Acute Care (27)  Clinical Nurse Specialist (08)  Pacific Islander (06) Years of Experience in Nursing:
 Medical Cardiology (34)  Corporate/Industry (11)  White/Non-Hispanic (01)
 Medical ICU (04)  Hospital Administrator (38)  Other – specify below _______________________________
 Medical Surgical ICU (35)  Internist (37)
 Neonatal ICU (06)  Legal Nurse Consultant (47) _____________________________ (99) Years of Experience in Acute/Critical
 Neuro./Neurosurgical ICU (10)  Manager (03) Care Nursing:
 Oncology Unit (19)  Nurse Anesthetist (02) Primary Type of Facility in Which
 Operating Room (15)  Nurse Educator (46) Employed _______________________________
 Outpatient Clinic (29)  Nurse Midwife (13)  College/University (08)
 Pediatric ICU (05)  Nurse Practitioner (05)  Community Hospital (Nonprofit) (01) Date of Birth: (mm/dd/yy):
 Private Practice (32)  Outcomes Manager (42)  Community Hospital (Profit) (02)
 Progressive Care Unit (16)  Physician (16)  Corporate/Industry (11) _______________________________
 Recovery Room/PACU (14)  Physician Assistant (17)  County Hospital (07)
 Respiratory ICU (08)  Researcher (18)  Federal Hospital (05) Gender:
 Stepdown Unit (30)  Respiratory Therapist (19)  HMO/Managed Care (12)  Male  Female  Non-binary
6. HONOR STATEMENT
Complete the Honor Statement on page 34.
7. SUBMIT APPLICATION
Attach Honor Statement to this application and submit with payment to:
AACN Certification Corporation
27071 Aliso Creek Road
Aliso Viejo, CA 92656-3399
or fax to: 949-362-2020
DO NOT mail AND fax your application - please choose only ONE method.
NOTE: Allow 2 to 4 weeks from the date received by AACN Certification Corporation for application processing.
Questions? Please visit www.aacn.org/certification, email certification@aacn.org or call us at 800-899-2226.
Please complete page 3 of application (honor statement).
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 33

=== PAGE 39 ===
Submit an ONLINE application at www.aacn.org/certification > Get Certified.
3 of 3
CCRN Exam Honor Statement - Direct Care Pathway
PROCESSING WILL BE DELAYED IF INCOMPLETE OR NOT LEGIBLE.
NAME: AACN CUSTOMER #:
Last First MI
I hereby apply for the CCRN certification exam. Submission of this application indicates I have read and understand the exam
policies and eligibility requirements as documented in the CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care Eligibility Pathway and the
Certification Exam Policy Handbook.
LICENSURE: I possess a current, unencumbered U.S. RN or APRN license. My _________________________________ (state)
nursing license _________________________________ (number) is due to expire ______________________________ (date).
An unencumbered license is not currently being subjected to formal discipline by the board of nursing in the state(s) in which
I am practicing and has no provisions or conditions that limit my nursing practice in any way. I understand that I must notify
AACN Certification Corporation within 30 days if any provisions or conditions are placed against my RN or APRN license(s) in
the future.
PRACTICE: I have fulfilled one of the following clinical practice requirement options:
• Practice as an RN or APRN for 1,750 hours in direct care of acutely/critically ill patients during the past 2 years, with 875
of those hours accrued in the most recent year preceding application.
OR
• Practice as an RN or APRN during the previous 5 years with a minimum of 2,000 hours in direct care of acutely/critically
ill patients, with 144 of those hours accrued in the most recent year preceding application.
These clinical hours were in direct care of the following acutely/critically ill patient population:
 Adult  Pediatric  Neonatal (check one box only)
A majority of the total practice hours and those within the year prior to application for exam eligibility were focused on
critically ill patients.
Hours were completed in a U.S.-based or Canada-based facility or in a facility determined to be comparable to the U.S.
standard of acute/critical care nursing practice as evidenced by Magnet® designation or Joint Commission International
accreditation.
PRACTICE VERIFICATION: Following is the contact information for my clinical supervisor or a professional colleague (RN or
physician) who can verify that I have met the clinical hour eligibility requirements:
Verifier’s Name: Facility Name:
Last First
Verifier’s Phone Number: Verifier’s Email Address:
You may not list yourself or a relative as your verifier.
AUDIT: I understand that my certification eligibility is subject to audit, and failure to respond to or pass an audit will result in
revocation of certification. If selected for audit, I understand that switching to renewal by exam, selecting Inactive or another
status, or completing CERPs/CE Points is not an option.
ETHICS: I understand the importance of ethical standards and agree to act in a manner congruent with the ANA Code of Ethics
for Nurses.
NONDISCLOSURE OF EXAM CONTENT: Submission of this application indicates my agreement to keep the contents of the
exam confidential and not disclose or discuss specific exam content with anyone except AACN Certification Corporation. Per
AACN Certification Corporation policy, sharing of exam content is cause for revocation of certification.
RETAKE POLICY:
I understand that I may apply for and take the same certification exam up to four times in a rolling 12-month period, and
that after 12 months signing a new honor statement is required.
To the best of my knowledge, the information contained in this application is accurate and submitted in good faith. My
signature below indicates I have read this honor statement and meet the eligibility requirements as outlined.
Applicant’s Signature: Date:
This application form may be photocopied and is also available online at www.aacn.org/certification.
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 34

=== PAGE 40 ===
CCRN Exam Handbook - Direct Care | December 2025 35